Concept and Terminology Cleanup, Part 1 (#155)
openid/OpenID4VCI: openid-4-verifiable-credential-issuance-1_0.md

# Introduction

> This specification defines an OAuth-protected API for the issuance of Verifiable Credentials. Credentials can be of any format, including, but not limited to, SD-JWT VC [@I-D.ietf-oauth-sd-jwt-vc], mDL [@ISO.18013-5], and VCDM [@VC_DATA].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This specification defines an OAuth-protected API for the issuance of Verifiable Credentials. Credentials can be of any format, including, but not limited to, SD-JWT VC [@I-D.ietf-oauth-sd-jwt-vc], mDL [@ISO.18013-5], and W3C VCDM [@VC_DATA].
```

> This specification defines an OAuth-protected API for the issuance of Verifiable Credentials. Credentials can be of any format, including, but not limited to, SD-JWT VC [@I-D.ietf-oauth-sd-jwt-vc], mDL [@ISO.18013-5], and W3C VCDM [@VC_DATA].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This specification defines an OAuth-protected API for the issuance of Verifiable Credentials. Credentials can be of any format, including, but not limited to, IETF SD-JWT VC [@I-D.ietf-oauth-sd-jwt-vc], ISO mDL [@ISO.18013-5], and W3C VCDM [@VC_DATA].
```

This specification also defines the following terms. In the case where a term has a definition that differs, the definition below is authoritative for this specification.

Credential:
:  A set of one or more claims about a subject made by a Credential Issuer. Note that this definition of a term "credential" in this specification is different from that in [@!OpenID.Core] and [@!RFC6749].
Credential Dataset:
:  A set of one or more claims about a subject made by a Credential Issuer.

Verifiable Credential (VC):

> :  An Issuer-signed Credential whose integrity can be cryptographically verified. It can be of any format used in the Issuer-Holder-Verifier Model, including, but not limited to those defined in [@VC_DATA] and [@ISO.18013-5].

Author: As far as I can see, the current text uses the terms Credential and Verifiable Credential interchangeably. I also question whether we have a use for the non-verifiable Credential term. So I suggest to adapt the terminology accordingly.

Reviewer: I had the same observation. I agree to not differentiate.

Reviewer 3: So what is the suggestion? To always use "Verifiable Credential"?

Author: Always use Credential, just as it is in the text right now.

> :  An Issuer-signed Credential Dataset whose integrity can be cryptographically verified. It can be of any Credential Format.

Author: I'd like to keep "Credential" in the first line to make it easier to find.

> :  An Issuer-signed Credential Dataset whose integrity can be cryptographically verified. It can be of any Credential Format.

Reviewer 4: Using my mental compiler, the alias comes after the definitions .. but not relevant if you feel more comfortable an editorial pattern instead of another (we're not machines!)

> :  An Issuer-signed Credential Dataset whose integrity can be cryptographically verified. It can be of any Credential Format.

Reviewer 5: I agree with @danielfett, its good for it to appear as an alias in the definition name rather than buried in the definition. We could opt to have both e.g add the last sentence in @peppelinux suggestion to this definition?

> :  An Issuer-signed Credential Dataset whose integrity can be cryptographically verified. It can be of any Credential Format.

Reviewer 4: change updated

Verifiable Credential (or Credential):
:  An Issuer-signed Credential Dataset whose integrity can be cryptographically verified. It can be of any Credential Format.

W3C Verifiable Credential:

> :  A Verifiable Credential compliant to the [@VC_DATA] specification.

Author: This wasn't used as a standalone term (i.e., without a reference to VC_DATA), so we don't need to define it here.

> :  A format used to represent a Verifiable Credential. The exact parameters required to describe a Credential Format are defined in the Credential Format Profile.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
:  A format used to represent a Verifiable Credential. The exact parameters required to describe a Credential Format are defined in the Credential Format Profile. Definition of credential formats is out of scope for this specification.
```

Reviewer 5: Don't feel too strongly about this one but could pay to be explicit here?

> 

Author: Todo: Define credential format identifier.

> :  A format used to represent a Verifiable Credential. The exact parameters required to describe a Credential Format are defined in the Credential Format Profile. Definition of credential formats is out of scope for this specification.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:  A format used to represent a Verifiable Credential. The exact parameters required to describe a Credential Format are defined in the Credential Format Profile. Definition of credential formats is out of scope for this specification. Examples for Credential Formats are W3C Verifiable Credentials [@VC_DATA] and ISO/IEC 18013-5 mDL [@ISO.18013-5].
```

> :  Sets of parameters specific to individual Credential Formats. Credential Format Profiles for W3C Verifiable Credentials [@VC_DATA] and ISO/IEC 18013-5 mDL [@ISO.18013-5] are provided in (#format_profiles). Other specifications or deployments can define their own Credential Format Profiles using the extension points defined in this specification.

Reviewer 5: I feel like we could be more specific about the purpose of a profile here, e.g the intent of the profile is to be able to "issue" a credential of that format over this protocol right?

Reviewer 3: I agree. I was completely misreading this definition in first place. 

The intention of a credential format profile is to customize VCI for use with credentials of that format. That should be stated along with a list of thing that needs to be defined, such as identifier, use in authz details, use in credential request and so on.

> 

Author: ```suggestion

Credential Format Identifier:
:  An identifier for a specific Credential Format in the context of this specification. Implies the usage of the respective Credential Format Profile specific parameters.

```

Credential Configuration:

> :  A Credential Configuration consists of a Credential Format including a type, information about requesting Credentials using this Credential Configuration (in particular, a `scope` value), information on cryptographic methods and algorithms supported for issuance, and display information to be used by the Wallet. A Credential Configuration is identified by a unique string.

Reviewer: the `scope` is optional and I don't see why it should be listed here explicitly

> :  A Credential Configuration consists of a Credential Format including a type, information about requesting Credentials using this Credential Configuration (in particular, a `scope` value), information on cryptographic methods and algorithms supported for issuance, and display information to be used by the Wallet. A Credential Configuration is identified by a unique string.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:  A Credential Configuration describes a particular type of Credential that a Credential Issuer is offering to issue. It contains a Credential Format and specifies the corresponding parameters given in the Credential Format Profile. Furthermore it includes information about requesting Credentials using this Credential Configuration, information on cryptographic methods and algorithms supported for issuance, and display information to be used by the Wallet. A Credential Configuration is identified by a Credential Configuration Identifier string that is unique to an Issuer.
```

Author: I think your first sentence does not capture the essence of a cred. configuration (as it is used right now).

Reviewer: I felt it was missing a sentence on the meaning/motivation instead of just listing the contents. whats missing from your view? type is overloaded, I know..

> :  A Credential Configuration consists of a Credential Format including a type, information about requesting Credentials using this Credential Configuration (in particular, a `scope` value), information on cryptographic methods and algorithms supported for issuance, and display information to be used by the Wallet. A Credential Configuration is identified by a unique string.

Reviewer 4: I'm not sure about `and metadata around its issuance` 

WDYT about

> A Credential Configuration outlines a specific type of Credential that a Credential Issuer proposes to issue, along with metadata pertaining the Credential and its issuance process.

> :  A Credential Configuration consists of a Credential Format including a type, information about requesting Credentials using this Credential Configuration (in particular, a `scope` value), information on cryptographic methods and algorithms supported for issuance, and display information to be used by the Wallet. A Credential Configuration is identified by a unique string.

Reviewer 3: I like the suggestion as it conveys the purpose of a configuration.

> :  A Credential Configuration consists of a Credential Format including a type, information about requesting Credentials using this Credential Configuration (in particular, a `scope` value), information on cryptographic methods and algorithms supported for issuance, and display information to be used by the Wallet. A Credential Configuration is identified by a unique string.

Author: ```suggestion
: A Credential Configuration describes a particular kind of Credential that a Credential Issuer is offering to issue, along with metadata pertaining to the issuance process and the issued Credentials. A Credential Configuration references a Credential Format and specifies the corresponding parameters given in the Credential Format Profile. Furthermore it includes information about requesting Credentials using this Credential Configuration, information on cryptographic methods and algorithms supported for issuance, and display information to be used by the Wallet. A Credential Configuration is identified by a Credential Configuration Identifier string that is unique to an Issuer.
```

Presentation:
: Data that is presented to a specific verifier, derived from one or more Verifiable Credentials that can be from the same or different Credential Issuers.

Verifiable Presentation (VP):
:  A Holder-signed Credential whose integrity can be cryptographically verified to provide Cryptographic Holder Binding. It can be of any format used in the Issuer-Holder-Verifier Model, including, but not limited to those defined in [@VC_DATA] and [@ISO.18013-5].

Credential Issuer (or Issuer):

> :  An entity that issues Verifiable Credentials. In the context of this specification, the Credential Issuer acts as an OAuth 2.0 Authorization Server (see [@!RFC6749]).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
:  An entity that issues Verifiable Credentials. In the context of this specification.
```

not sure, since a Credential Issuer is a RS, that can integrate an AS or not. It only requires a valid Access Token to provide the protected resources (VC though the credential endpoint in this case)

and, since the resource owner of the protected resources is the user, I love to think that the credential endpoint is something similar to the OIDC userinfo endpoint, and all this makes a VCI more similar to an OpenID Provider than to a AS. But this is just for a chat between us.

Reviewer 3: You basically do not need to cover the issuer in this PR. What we need is consistent terminology für credentials, right?

Holder:
:  An entity that receives Verifiable Credentials and has control over them to present them to the Verifiers as Verifiable Presentations.

Verifier:

> :  An entity that requests, receives, and validates Verifiable Presentations. During a presentation, the Verifier acts as an OAuth 2.0 Client towards the Wallet that is acting as an OAuth 2.0 Authorization Server. The Verifier is a specific case of an OAuth 2.0 Client, just like Relying Party (RP) in [@OpenID.Core].

Reviewer 4: > towards the Wallet that is acting as an OAuth 2.0 Authorization Server

Not sure because the Wallet is a client in the issuance, with protocol specific flows and an Identity Provider in the presentation phase (where the data provider was the VCI and the data the VC). The OpenID4VP and SIOPv2 are too much specialized to considering Wallets an AS. Conceptually we can say that a wallet is an AS but I would not define this so explicitly. My thoughs.

Reviewer 3: Perhaps the definition in this spec should be much shorter, just the first sentence. We only need the concept defined in this spec, no further technical details as this is covered by OID4VP.

This specification also defines the following terms. In the case where a term has a definition that differs, the definition below is authoritative for this specification.

> Credential Dataset:

Author: Where do you draw the line between assertion and claim? For me, a claim by definition is an assertion. That's also how OIDC defines it: "Piece of information asserted about an Entity."

I'll add my suggestion below.

> Credential Dataset:

Reviewer 6: Change "Verifiable Credentials are very similar to identity assertions," to "Verifiable Credentials are secured sets of claims about a subject,"

> Credential Dataset:

Author: @tlodderstedt What exactly do you mean by "logical"?

> Credential Dataset:

Author: I added the 'authorization' part below in the concepts section.

> :  A collection of one or more assertions about a subject, provided by a Credential Issuer. These assertions are also known as claims.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
:  A collection of one or more claims about a subject, provided by a Credential Issuer.
```

Possible suggestion based on @tlodderstedt comment.

> :  A collection of one or more assertions about a subject, provided by a Credential Issuer. These assertions are also known as claims.

Reviewer 6: Use "claims" - not "assertions".  Claims is used pervasively in OpenID and IETF specs.  Assertions is SAML terminology.  We should not reintroduce it.

> Verifiable Credential (or Credential):

Author: Yes

> Verifiable Credential (or Credential):

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
Credential (or Verifiable Credential)
```

> Verifiable Credential (or Credential):

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Credential (or Verifiable Credential):
```

Suggestion from @awoie during editors call

> :  A Credential Dataset signed by an Issuer, whose integrity can be cryptographically verified. This can be in any Credential Format. In this specification, the term "Verifiable Credential" is also referred to as "Credential".

Author: ```suggestion
:  A Credential Dataset signed by an Issuer, whose integrity can be cryptographically verified. This can be in any Credential Format. In this specification, the term "Verifiable Credential" is also referred to as "Credential". (Note that in this specification, Credential is not used in any other meaning, e.g., passwords as login credentials.)
```
@tplooker @selfissued Is this okay and sufficient?

Author: Good point, I'd actually like to have both in there:
```suggestion
: A Credential Dataset signed by an Issuer, whose integrity can be cryptographically verified. This can be in any Credential Format. In this specification, the term "Verifiable Credential" is also referred to as "Credential". Note that this definition of the term "Credential" is different from that in [@!OpenID.Core] and [@!RFC6749]. In this specification, Credential is not used in any other meaning, e.g., passwords as login credentials.
```

> :  A Credential Dataset signed by an Issuer, whose integrity can be cryptographically verified. This can be in any Credential Format. In this specification, the term "Verifiable Credential" is also referred to as "Credential".

Author: From the editor's call: We should add that we don't mean passwords or any other credentials, as these terms are also used in the industry.

Credential Format:

> :  A format used to represent a Verifiable Credential. The exact parameters required to describe a Credential Format are defined in the Credential Format Profile. Definition of credential formats is out of scope for this specification. Examples for Credential Formats are W3C Verifiable Credentials [@VC_DATA], SD-JWT VC [@!I-D.ietf-oauth-sd-jwt-vc] and ISO/IEC 18013-5 mDL [@ISO.18013-5].

Reviewer 8: "Credential Format" vs "credential format".

```suggestion
:  A format used to represent a Verifiable Credential. The exact parameters required to describe a Credential Format are defined in the Credential Format Profile. Definition of Credential Formats is out of scope for this specification. Examples for Credential Formats are W3C Verifiable Credentials [@VC_DATA], SD-JWT VC [@!I-D.ietf-oauth-sd-jwt-vc] and ISO/IEC 18013-5 mDL [@ISO.18013-5].
```

Credential Format Profile:

> :  Sets of parameters specific to individual Credential Formats. Credential Format Profiles for W3C Verifiable Credentials [@VC_DATA] and ISO/IEC 18013-5 mDL [@ISO.18013-5] are provided in (#format_profiles). Other specifications or deployments can define their own Credential Format Profiles using the extension points defined in this specification.

Author: ```suggestion
:  Extensions of the parameters defined in this specification for the issuance of Credentials in specific Credential Formats. The parameters in Credential Format Profiles are used in various places in this specification, e.g., the `authorization_details` request parameter. Credential Format Profiles for W3C Verifiable Credentials [@VC_DATA] and ISO/IEC 18013-5 mDL [@ISO.18013-5] are provided in (#format_profiles). Other specifications or deployments can define their own Credential Format Profiles using the extension points defined in this specification.
```
How about this?
@tplooker @tlodderstedt

Reviewer 9: As you probably know, SD-JWT VC has been added to the (#format_profiles) since this PR was written.

Presentation:
: Data that is presented to a specific verifier, derived from one or more Verifiable Credentials that can be from the same or different Credential Issuers.

Verifiable Presentation (VP):
:  A Holder-signed Credential whose integrity can be cryptographically verified to provide Cryptographic Holder Binding. It can be of any format used in the Issuer-Holder-Verifier Model, including, but not limited to those defined in [@VC_DATA] and [@ISO.18013-5].

Credential Issuer (or Issuer):
:  An entity that issues Verifiable Credentials. In the context of this specification, the Credential Issuer acts as an OAuth 2.0 Authorization Server (see [@!RFC6749]).

Holder:
:  An entity that receives Verifiable Credentials and has control over them to present them to the Verifiers as Verifiable Presentations.

Verifier:

> :  An entity that requests, receives, and validates Verifiable Presentations. During a presentation, the Verifier acts as an OAuth 2.0 Client towards the Wallet that is acting as an OAuth 2.0 Authorization Server. The Verifier is a specific case of an OAuth 2.0 Client, just like Relying Party (RP) in [@OpenID.Core].

Author: ```suggestion
:  An entity that requests, receives, and validates Verifiable Presentations.
```

This specification also defines the following terms. In the case where a term has a definition that differs, the definition below is authoritative for this specification.

Credential Dataset:

> :  A collection of one or more claims about a subject, provided by a Credential Issuer.

Reviewer: After discussion with Kristina, my interpretation of Credential Dataset is more about the values, so an example for a Credential Dataset is (Paul, Bastian) and not (given_name, last_name)

> :  A collection of one or more claims about a subject, provided by a Credential Issuer.

Reviewer 2: Is Credential dataset signed by the issuer or is it meant to refer only to the collection of claims, before it is signed by the issuer?

> Credential (or Verifiable Credential):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Credential (or Verifiable Credential, or Credential Instance):
```

Author: I don't think it is a good idea to introduce "X Instance" when we already have "X". I see what you want to clarify with this term, but having both meaning the same doesn't make sense. And using "Credential Instance" everywhere doesn't seem like a good idea either ("Batch Credential Instance Issuance Endpoint?").

Reviewer 7: I concur with @danielfett

Reviewer 9: I concur with @awoie who concurs with @danielfett

Reviewer: I got convinced in the wg call, happy to close this

Reviewer 2: WG call, agreed not to make this change.

> :  A Credential Dataset signed by an Issuer, whose integrity can be cryptographically verified. This can be in any Credential Format. In this specification, the term "Verifiable Credential" is also referred to as "Credential". Note that this definition of the term "Credential" is different from that in [@!OpenID.Core] and [@!RFC6749]. In this specification, Credential is not used in any other meaning, e.g., passwords as login credentials.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
:  A "Verifiable Credential" refers to a dataset signed by an Issuer, the integrity of which can be cryptographically verified. This dataset can be in any Credential Format. Within this specification, "Verifiable Credential" and "Credential" are used interchangeably. It's important to note that the use of the term "Credential" here differs from its usage in [@!OpenID.Core] and [@!RFC6749]. In this context, "Credential" specifically does not encompass other meanings such as passwords used for login credentials.
```

Reviewer 4: good point, suggestion updated

> :  A Credential Dataset signed by an Issuer, whose integrity can be cryptographically verified. This can be in any Credential Format. In this specification, the term "Verifiable Credential" is also referred to as "Credential". Note that this definition of the term "Credential" is different from that in [@!OpenID.Core] and [@!RFC6749]. In this specification, Credential is not used in any other meaning, e.g., passwords as login credentials.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:  An instance of Credential Format signed by an Issuer, whose integrity can be cryptographically verified, using a particular Credential Dataset. An Issuer may provide multiple Credentials as instances of the same Credential Format and Credential Dataset but with different cryptographic values.  In this specification, the term "Verifiable Credential" is also referred to as "Credential". Note that this definition of the term "Credential" is different from that in [@!OpenID.Core] and [@!RFC6749]. In this specification, Credential is not used in any other meaning, e.g., passwords as login credentials.
```

Reviewer 2: +1, I really want to see "instance" in the description if it is not in the term itself

> :  An instance of Credential Configuration with a particular Credential Dataset, that is signed by an Issuer and can be cryptographically verified. An Issuer may provide multiple Credentials as instances of the same Credential Configuration and Credential Dataset but with different cryptographic values.  In this specification, the term "Verifiable Credential" is also referred to as "Credential". It's important to note that the use of the term "Credential" here differs from its usage in [@!OpenID.Core] and [@!RFC6749]. In this context, "Credential" specifically does not encompass other meanings such as passwords used for login credentials..

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:  An instance of a Credential Configuration with a particular Credential Dataset, that is signed by an Issuer and can be cryptographically verified. An Issuer may provide multiple Credentials as separate instances of the same Credential Configuration and Credential Dataset but with different cryptographic signature values. In this specification, the term "Verifiable Credential" is also referred to as "Credential". It's important to note that the use of the term "Credential" here differs from its usage in [@!OpenID.Core] and [@!RFC6749]. In this context, "Credential" specifically does not encompass other meanings such as passwords used for login credentials..
```

Reviewer: Different cryptographic values may not only be about signatures but also about hashes, e.g. from SD-jwt. That's why I tend to say cryptographic values or data in general

Author: Agree with @paulbastian on this

Credential Format:

> :  A specification that defines the representation, encoding and processing rules of a Verifiable Credential. The exact parameters required to use a Credential Format in the context of this specification are defined in the Credential Format Profile. Definitions of Credential Formats is out of scope for this specification. Examples for Credential Formats are W3C Verifiable Credentials [@VC_DATA], SD-JWT VC [@!I-D.ietf-oauth-sd-jwt-vc] and ISO/IEC 18013-5 mDL [@ISO.18013-5].

Reviewer: I'm unsure about the word Schema, apart from that changes look good to me

> :  A specification that defines the representation, encoding and processing rules of a Verifiable Credential. The exact parameters required to use a Credential Format in the context of this specification are defined in the Credential Format Profile. Definitions of Credential Formats is out of scope for this specification. Examples for Credential Formats are W3C Verifiable Credentials [@VC_DATA], SD-JWT VC [@!I-D.ietf-oauth-sd-jwt-vc] and ISO/IEC 18013-5 mDL [@ISO.18013-5].

Reviewer 2: +1 to paul. format is not a schema. data model is probably a more commonly used word

> :  A specification that defines the representation, encoding and processing rules of a Verifiable Credential. The exact parameters required to use a Credential Format in the context of this specification are defined in the Credential Format Profile. Definitions of Credential Formats is out of scope for this specification. Examples for Credential Formats are W3C Verifiable Credentials [@VC_DATA], SD-JWT VC [@!I-D.ietf-oauth-sd-jwt-vc] and ISO/IEC 18013-5 mDL [@ISO.18013-5].

Reviewer 2: also let's stick to the order given in the intro:
```suggestion
:  A specification that defines the representation, encoding and processing rules of a Verifiable Credential. The exact parameters required to use a Credential Format in the context of this specification are defined in the Credential Format Profile. Definitions of Credential Formats is out of scope for this specification. Examples for Credential Formats are SD-JWT VC [@I-D.ietf-oauth-sd-jwt-vc], mDL [@ISO.18013-5], and VCDM [@VC_DATA].
```

> :  A specification that defines the representation, encoding and processing rules of a Verifiable Credential. The exact parameters required to use a Credential Format in the context of this specification are defined in the Credential Format Profile. Definitions of Credential Formats is out of scope for this specification. Examples for Credential Formats are W3C Verifiable Credentials [@VC_DATA], SD-JWT VC [@!I-D.ietf-oauth-sd-jwt-vc] and ISO/IEC 18013-5 mDL [@ISO.18013-5].

Author: This should say "W3C VCDM" though.

> :  Data Model used to create and represent Credential information. This format defines how various pieces of data within a Verifiable Credential are organized and encoded, ensuring that the Verifiable Credential can be consistently understood, processed, and verified by different systems. The exact parameters required to use a Credential Format in the context of this specification are defined in the Credential Format Profile. Definitions of Credential Formats is out of scope for this specification. Examples for Credential Formats are SD-JWT VC [@I-D.ietf-oauth-sd-jwt-vc], mDL [@ISO.18013-5], and W3C VCDM [@VC_DATA].```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:  Data Model used to create and represent Credential information. This format defines how various pieces of data within a Verifiable Credential are organized and encoded, ensuring that the Verifiable Credential can be consistently understood, processed, and verified by different systems. The exact parameters required to use a Credential Format in the context of this specification are defined in the Credential Format Profile. Definitions of Credential Formats is out of scope for this specification. Examples for Credential Formats are IETF SD-JWT VC [@I-D.ietf-oauth-sd-jwt-vc], ISO mDL [@ISO.18013-5], and W3C VCDM [@VC_DATA].```
```

> :  Data Model used to create and represent Credential information. This format defines how various pieces of data within a Verifiable Credential are organized and encoded, ensuring that the Verifiable Credential can be consistently understood, processed, and verified by different systems. The exact parameters required to use a Credential Format in the context of this specification are defined in the Credential Format Profile. Definitions of Credential Formats is out of scope for this specification. Examples for Credential Formats are SD-JWT VC [@I-D.ietf-oauth-sd-jwt-vc], mDL [@ISO.18013-5], and W3C VCDM [@VC_DATA].```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:  Data Model used to create and represent Credential information. This format defines how various pieces of data within a Verifiable Credential are organized and encoded, ensuring that the Verifiable Credential can be consistently understood, processed, and verified by different systems. The exact parameters required to use a Credential Format in the context of this specification are defined in the Credential Format Profile. Definitions of Credential Formats is out of scope for this specification. Examples for Credential Formats are IETF SD-JWT VC [@I-D.ietf-oauth-sd-jwt-vc], ISO mDL [@ISO.18013-5], and W3C VCDM [@VC_DATA].```
```

Credential Format Profile:

> :  Sets of parameters specific to individual Credential Formats. Credential Format Profiles for W3C Verifiable Credentials [@VC_DATA] and ISO/IEC 18013-5 mDL [@ISO.18013-5] are provided in (#format-profiles). Other specifications or deployments can define their own Credential Format Profiles using the extension points defined in this specification.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
:  sets of parameters specific to individual Credential Formats are defined as Credential Format Profiles. This specification includes Credential Format Profiles for W3C Verifiable Credentials [@VC_DATA] and ISO/IEC 18013-5 mDL [@ISO.18013-5], which can be found in section (#format-profiles). Additionally, other specifications or deployments have the flexibility to define their own Credential Format Profiles by utilizing the extension points provided in this specification.
```

Credential Format Identifier:

> :  An identifier for a specific Credential Format in the context of this specification. Implies the usage of the respective Credential Format Profile specific parameters.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
:  An identifier to denote a specific Credential Format. This identifier implies the use of parameters specific to the respective Credential Format Profile.
```

Presentation:
: Data that is presented to a specific verifier, derived from one or more Verifiable Credentials that can be from the same or different Credential Issuers.
Credential Format Profile:
:  Sets of parameters specific to individual Credential Formats. Credential Format Profiles for W3C Verifiable Credentials [@VC_DATA] and ISO/IEC 18013-5 mDL [@ISO.18013-5] are provided in (#format_profiles). Other specifications or deployments can define their own Credential Format Profiles using the extension points defined in this specification.

Credential Format Identifier:
:  An identifier for a specific Credential Format in the context of this specification. Implies the usage of the respective Credential Format Profile specific parameters.

Verifiable Presentation (VP):

> :  A Holder-signed Credential whose integrity can be cryptographically verified to provide Cryptographic Holder Binding. It can be of any format used in the Issuer-Holder-Verifier Model, including, but not limited to those defined in [@VC_DATA] and [@ISO.18013-5].

Author: Note: I remove the definition of this term as it was not really used in the specification (except in definitions of other terms).

> :  Set of parameters specific to individual Credential Formats. This specification provides Credential Format Profiles for W3C Verifiable Credentials [@VC_DATA], SD-JWT VC [@!I-D.ietf-oauth-sd-jwt-vc] and ISO/IEC 18013-5 mDL [@ISO.18013-5], which can be found in section (#format-profiles). Additionally, other specifications or deployments can define their own Credential Format Profiles by utilizing the extension points defined in this specification.

Reviewer 2: same, let's stick to the order given in the intro:
```suggestion
:  Set of parameters specific to individual Credential Formats. This specification provides Credential Format Profiles for SD-JWT VC [@I-D.ietf-oauth-sd-jwt-vc], mDL [@ISO.18013-5], and VCDM [@VC_DATA], which can be found in section (#format-profiles). Additionally, other specifications or deployments can define their own Credential Format Profiles by utilizing the extension points defined in this specification.
```

Author: This should say "W3C VCDM" though.

> :  Set of parameters specific to individual Credential Formats. This specification provides Credential Format Profiles for SD-JWT VC [@I-D.ietf-oauth-sd-jwt-vc], mDL [@ISO.18013-5], and W3C VCDM [@VC_DATA], which can be found in section (#format-profiles). Additionally, other specifications or deployments can define their own Credential Format Profiles by utilizing the extension points defined in this specification.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:  Set of parameters specific to individual Credential Formats. This specification provides Credential Format Profiles for IETF SD-JWT VC [@I-D.ietf-oauth-sd-jwt-vc], ISO mDL [@ISO.18013-5], and W3C VCDM [@VC_DATA], which can be found in section (#format-profiles). Additionally, other specifications or deployments can define their own Credential Format Profiles by utilizing the extension points defined in this specification.
```

> :  Set of parameters specific to individual Credential Formats. This specification provides Credential Format Profiles for SD-JWT VC [@I-D.ietf-oauth-sd-jwt-vc], mDL [@ISO.18013-5], and W3C VCDM [@VC_DATA], which can be found in section (#format-profiles). Additionally, other specifications or deployments can define their own Credential Format Profiles by utilizing the extension points defined in this specification.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:  Set of parameters specific to individual Credential Formats. This specification provides Credential Format Profiles for IETF SD-JWT VC [@I-D.ietf-oauth-sd-jwt-vc], ISO mDL [@ISO.18013-5], and W3C VCDM [@VC_DATA], which can be found in section (#format-profiles). Additionally, other specifications or deployments can define their own Credential Format Profiles by utilizing the extension points defined in this specification.
```

> Credential Configuration:

Reviewer 5: Just to test the thinking here, are we for seeing the situation where a single credential issuer would be able to issue more then one credential dataset from a single credential configuration. For example if we consider a delegation scenario of birth certificates where as a holder I want to be able to request my birth certificate but im also authorised to request my son's, under this terminology these two credentials would have different datasets but could share a credential configuration?

Reviewer: Agreed. Even easier, you have two cars and therefore two vehicle registration VCs. They have the same Credential Configuration but different Credential Dataset

Reviewer: Reviewing the discussions in Rome, I think there is broad consensus on this

> : A Credential Configuration describes a particular kind of Credential that a Credential Issuer is offering to issue, along with metadata pertaining to the issuance process and the issued Credentials. A Credential Configuration references a Credential Format and specifies the corresponding parameters given in the Credential Format Profile. Furthermore it includes information about requesting Credentials using this Credential Configuration, information on cryptographic methods and algorithms supported for issuance, and display information to be used by the Wallet. A Credential Configuration is identified by a Credential Configuration Identifier string that is unique to an Issuer.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
: Credential Issuer's description of a particular kind of Credential that the Credential Issuer is offering to issue, along with metadata pertaining to the issuance process and the issued Credentials. A Credential Configuration references a Credential Format and specifies the corresponding parameters given in the Credential Format Profile. Furthermore it includes information about requesting Credentials using this Credential Configuration, information on cryptographic methods and algorithms supported for issuance, and display information to be used by the Wallet. A Credential Configuration is identified by a Credential Configuration Identifier string that is unique to an Issuer.
```

Author: The "descibes a kind of credential" is important since multiple copies of it can be issued.

> : Data that is presented to a specific verifier, derived from one or more Verifiable Credentials that can be from the same or different Credential Issuers. It can be of any format used in the Issuer-Holder-Verifier Model, including, but not limited to those defined in [@VC_DATA] and [@ISO.18013-5].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
: Data that is presented to a specific Verifier, derived from one or more Verifiable Credentials that can be from the same or different Credential Issuers. It can be of any Credential format used in the Issuer-Holder-Verifier Model, including, but not limited to those defined in [@VC_DATA] and [@ISO.18013-5].
```

> 

Reviewer 9: SD-JWT VC could now be listed here too.

Reviewer: As W3C VP gets removed in this PR, I think its reasonable not lot list SD-JWT VC explicitly as a term. Its listed as an example in Credential Formats though, I think its fine like this

> Presentation:

Reviewer 2: Is there a reason to not define a term "verifiable presentation" not necessarily opposing to it, but would like to know the reasoning.

Author: We're not distinguishing verifiable and non-verifiable presentations in the spec, so we don't need the term.

> :  An entity that issues Verifiable Credentials. In the context of this specification, the Credential Issuer acts as an OAuth 2.0 Authorization Server (see [@!RFC6749]).

Reviewer 4: I think that Credential Issuer is an RS, even if the specification that defines it extends the OAuth 2.0 AS specifications. I believe that we really need to clarify AS != RS and how and why they can be deployed within the same entity

Reviewer 9: You are absolutely correct @peppelinux but that "Credential Issuer acts as an OAuth 2.0 Authorization Server" text predates this PR and fixing it is somewhat tangential (at least I think @danielfett would say he doesn't want to try and fix it here). Would you do a separate PR or issue for it? Note that the fix for #156 (mentioned in the resolved conversation above) didn't touch this text in question.

Reviewer 9: PR #299 as a minimal fix

> : Data that is presented to a specific Verifier, derived from one or more Verifiable Credentials that can be from the same or different Credential Issuers. It can be of any Credential format used in the Issuer-Holder-Verifier Model, including, but not limited to those defined in [@VC_DATA] and [@ISO.18013-5].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
: Data that is presented to a specific Verifier, derived from one or more Verifiable Credentials that can be from the same or different Credential Issuers. It can be of any Credential Format.
```
(credential format is not a defined term)

> :  An entity that issues Verifiable Credentials. In the context of this specification, the Credential Issuer acts as an OAuth 2.0 Authorization Server (see [@!RFC6749]).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:  An entity that issues Verifiable Credentials. In the context of this specification, the Credential Issuer acts as an OAuth 2.0 Resource Server (see [@!RFC6749]).
```

:  An entity that receives Verifiable Credentials and has control over them to present them to the Verifiers as Presentations.

Verifier:
:  An entity that requests, receives, and validates Presentations.

Issuer-Holder-Verifier Model:

> :  A model for exchanging claims, where claims are issued in the form of Verifiable Credentials independent of the process of presenting them as  Presentations to the Verifiers. An issued Verifiable Credential can be (but is not necessarily) used multiple times.

Reviewer 9: supper helpful, I know... 
```suggestion
:  A model for exchanging claims, where claims are issued in the form of Verifiable Credentials independent of the process of presenting them as Presentations to the Verifiers. An issued Verifiable Credential can be (but is not necessarily) used multiple times.
```

> :  A model for exchanging claims, where claims are issued in the form of Verifiable Credentials independent of the process of presenting them as Presentations to the Verifiers. An issued Verifiable Credential can be (but is not necessarily) used multiple times.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
:  Model that facilitates the exchange of claims, where claims are issued as Verifiable Credentials independently of the process of presenting them to Verifiers in the form of Presentations. An issued Verifiable Credential may be used multiple times, although this is not a requirement.
```

:  Ability of the Holder to prove legitimate possession of a Verifiable Credential by demonstrating a certain biometric trait, such as fingerprint or face. One example of a Verifiable Credential with Biometrics-based Holder Binding is a mobile driving license [@ISO.18013-5], which contains a portrait of the holder.

Wallet:

> :  An entity used by the Holder to request, receive, store, present, and manage Verifiable Credentials and cryptographic key material. Verifiable Credentials and keys can be stored and managed either locally, through a remote self-hosted service, or via a remote third-party service. In the context of this specification, the Wallet acts as an OAuth 2.0 Client (see [@!RFC6749]).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:  An entity used by the Holder to request, receive, store, present, and manage Verifiable Credentials and cryptographic key material. There is no single deployment model of a Wallet: Credentials and keys can be stored and managed either locally, through a remote self-hosted service, or via a remote third-party service. In the context of this specification, the Wallet acts as an OAuth 2.0 Client (see [@!RFC6749]).
```

`There is no single deployment model of a Wallet` this is super important - would not want to remove it

> :  An entity used by the Holder to request, receive, store, present, and manage Verifiable Credentials and key material. There is no single deployment model of a Wallet: Verifiable Credentials and keys can both be stored and managed locally, or by using a remote self-hosted service, or a remote third-party service. In the context of this specification, the Wallet acts as an OAuth 2.0 Client (see [@!RFC6749]).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
:  An entity used by the Holder to request, receive, store, present, and manage Verifiable Credentials and cryptographic key material. Verifiable Credentials and keys can be stored and managed either locally, through a remote self-hosted service, or via a remote third-party service. In the context of this specification, the Wallet acts as an OAuth 2.0 Client (see [@!RFC6749]).
```

> :  An entity used by the Holder to receive, store, present, and manage Verifiable Credentials and key material. There is no single deployment model of a Wallet: Verifiable Credentials and keys can both be stored/managed locally, or by using a remote self-hosted service, or a remote third-party service. In the context of this specification, the Wallet acts as an OAuth 2.0 Authorization Server (see [@!RFC6749]) towards the Verifier which acts as the OAuth 2.0 Client.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
:  An entity used by the Holder to receive, store, present, and manage Verifiable Credentials and key material. There is no single deployment model of a Wallet: Verifiable Credentials and keys can both be stored/managed locally, or by using a remote self-hosted service, or a remote third-party service. In the context of this specification, the Wallet can be considered as an OAuth 2.0 Authorization Server as per [@!RFC6749] and the Verifier as an OAuth 2.0 Client.
```

> :  An entity used by the Holder to receive, store, present, and manage Verifiable Credentials and key material. There is no single deployment model of a Wallet: Verifiable Credentials and keys can both be stored/managed locally, or by using a remote self-hosted service, or a remote third-party service. In the context of this specification, the Wallet acts as an OAuth 2.0 Authorization Server (see [@!RFC6749]) towards the Verifier which acts as the OAuth 2.0 Client.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:  An entity used by the Holder to receive, store, present, and manage Verifiable Credentials and key material. There is no single deployment model of a Wallet: Verifiable Credentials and keys can both be stored/managed locally, or by using a remote self-hosted service, or a remote third-party service. In the context of this specification, the Wallet acts as an OAuth 2.0 Client (see [@!RFC6749]).
```

* Client metadata is used to convey Wallet's metadata. A new metadata parameter `credential_offer_endpoint` is added to allow a Wallet (acting as OAuth 2.0 client) to publish its Credential Offer Endpoint (see (#client-metadata)).
* Authorization Endpoint: An additional parameter `issuer_state` is added to convey state in the context of processing an issuer-initiated Credential Offer (see (#credential-authz-request)). Additional parameters `wallet_issuer` and `user_hint` are added to enable the Credential Issuer to request Verifiable Presentations from the calling Wallet during Authorization Request processing.
* Token Endpoint: optional response parameters `c_nonce` and `c_nonce_expires_in` are added to the Token Endpoint, Credential Endpoint and Batch Credential Endpoint to provide the Client with a nonce to be used for proof of possession of key material in a subsequent request to the Credential Endpoint (see (#token-response)).

## Core Concepts

### Multiple Credential Issuance

> Credentials issued at the Credential Endpoint or Batch Credential Endpoint can vary in their contents (the Credential Dataset), their format (Credential Format including Credential Format Profile specific parameters) as well as in the key to which they are bound for Cryptographic Holder Binding. For multiple Credentials (either issued in multiple Credential Requests or at once at the Batch Credential Endpoint), the following combinations are possible:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Credentials issued at the Credential Endpoint or Batch Credential Endpoint can vary in their contents (the Credential Dataset), their format (Credential Format including Credential Format Profile specific parameters) as well as in the key to which they are bound for Cryptographic Holder Binding. For multiple Credentials, either issued in multiple Credential Requests or all at once at the Batch Credential Endpoint, the following combinations are possible.:
```

- Same Credential Dataset and Format, but different keys
- Different Credential Dataset and Format, but same key
- Different Credential Dataset and Format and different keys

> (TODO: Say how Dataset is connected to Credential Format.)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The Credential Format represents the Verifiable Credential and defines how the data (or Dataset) within the Credential is organized. This can include the specific parameters needed to describe the Credential, which are established in the Credential Format Profile. Therefore, the Dataset and the Credential Format are closely connected. The Dataset provides the actual data or claims, while the Credential Format provides the structure or schema for representing and interacting with this data.
```

> (TODO: Discuss Batch vs. Single Credential Endpoint.)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This specification allows for the issuance of Verifiable Credentials through two types of endpoints: the Single Credential Endpoint and the Batch Credential Endpoint.

1. Single Credential Endpoint: This endpoint is used when a single Verifiable Credential is to be issued. The request to this endpoint includes the necessary parameters for the issuance of one credential. The response from this endpoint will contain the issued Verifiable Credential.

2. Batch Credential Endpoint: This endpoint is used when multiple Verifiable Credentials need to be issued at once. The request to this endpoint includes the necessary parameters for the issuance of multiple credentials. The response from this endpoint will contain all the issued Verifiable Credentials.

When dealing with multiple Credentials, the following combinations are possible:

1. Multiple Credentials with different Credential Format bound to the same Cryptographic Holder Binding.
2. Multiple Credentials with the same Credential Format bound to different Cryptographic Holder Binding.
3. Multiple Credentials with different Credential Format bound to different Cryptographic Holder Binding.

These combinations allow for flexibility in how Verifiable Credentials are issued, accommodating a variety of use cases and requirements. The choice between using the Single Credential Endpoint or the Batch Credential Endpoint depends on the specific use case. If only one Verifiable Credential needs to be issued, the Single Credential Endpoint would be used. If multiple Verifiable Credentials need to be issued at once, the Batch Credential Endpoint would be more efficient.
```

Author: Thanks for providing the text!

In the course of the authorization process, the Credential Issuer MAY also request Credential presentation as a means to authenticate or identify the End-User during the issuance flow, as illustrated in (#use-case-5).

### Credential Formats and Credential Format Profiles

> At its core, this specification is Credential Format agnostic and allows implementers to leverage specific capabilities of Credential Formats of their choice. Multiple Credential Formats can be used within the same transaction. This specification defines Extension points to add Credential Format specific parameters in the Credential Issuer metadata, Credential Offer, Authorization Request, Credential Request and Batch Credential Request.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
At its core, this specification is Credential Format agnostic and allows implementers to leverage specific capabilities of Credential Formats of their choice. Multiple Credential Formats can be used within the same transaction. This specification defines extension points to add Credential Format specific parameters in the Credential Issuer metadata, Credential Offer, Authorization Request, Credential Request and Batch Credential Request.
```

* Client metadata is used to convey Wallet's metadata. A new metadata parameter `credential_offer_endpoint` is added to allow a Wallet (acting as OAuth 2.0 client) to publish its Credential Offer Endpoint (see (#client-metadata)).
* Authorization Endpoint: An additional parameter `issuer_state` is added to convey state in the context of processing an issuer-initiated Credential Offer (see (#credential-authz-request)). Additional parameters `wallet_issuer` and `user_hint` are added to enable the Credential Issuer to request Verifiable Presentations from the calling Wallet during Authorization Request processing.
* Token Endpoint: optional response parameters `c_nonce` and `c_nonce_expires_in` are added to the Token Endpoint, Credential Endpoint and Batch Credential Endpoint to provide the Client with a nonce to be used for proof of possession of key material in a subsequent request to the Credential Endpoint (see (#token-response)).

## Core Concepts

### Multiple Credential Issuance

> Credentials issued at the Credential Endpoint or Batch Credential Endpoint can vary in their contents (the Credential Dataset), their format (Credential Format including Credential Format Profile specific parameters) as well as in the key to which they are bound for Cryptographic Holder Binding. For multiple Credentials, either issued in multiple Credential Requests or all at once at the Batch Credential Endpoint, the following combinations are possible.:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Credentials can vary in their format (Credential Format including Credential Format Profile specific parameters), in their contents (the Credential Dataset), as well as in the key to which they are bound for Cryptographic Holder Binding. For multiple Credentials, either issued in multiple Credential Requests or all at once at the Batch Credential Endpoint, the following combinations are possible.:
```

- Same Credential Dataset and Format, but different keys
- Different Credential Dataset and Format, but same key
- Different Credential Dataset and Format and different keys

> The Credential Format represents the Verifiable Credential and defines how the data (or Dataset) within the Credential is organized. This can include the specific parameters needed to describe the Credential, which are established in the Credential Format Profile. Therefore, the Dataset and the Credential Format are closely connected. The Dataset provides the actual data or claims, while the Credential Format provides the structure or schema for representing and interacting with this data.

Reviewer: After re-reading the terminology I'm surprised to not see Credential Configuration here. My assumption was to explain the three layers here from #91 
First layer: Credential Configuration, examples mDL, diploma, birth certificate
Second layer: Credential Dataset, examples my BSc, Msc, birth certificate for my daugther and my son
Third layer: Credential Instnace, containing the keys used for a particular Credential Dataset

> The Credential Format represents the Verifiable Credential and defines how the data (or Dataset) within the Credential is organized. This can include the specific parameters needed to describe the Credential, which are established in the Credential Format Profile. Therefore, the Dataset and the Credential Format are closely connected. The Dataset provides the actual data or claims, while the Credential Format provides the structure or schema for representing and interacting with this data.

Author: The current spec uses cred. configuration as a tool to issue a credential of a certain type and with certain cryptographic features/requirements, associated with information to display the configuration (in the Wallet). Our previous definition of a credential configuration in #91 is not reflected in the spec, it is the credential type.

> The Credential Format represents the Verifiable Credential and defines how the data (or Dataset) within the Credential is organized. This can include the specific parameters needed to describe the Credential, which are established in the Credential Format Profile. Therefore, the Dataset and the Credential Format are closely connected. The Dataset provides the actual data or claims, while the Credential Format provides the structure or schema for representing and interacting with this data.

Author: Please re-read. I restructured and rewrote some parts of this section.

This specification allows for the issuance of Verifiable Credentials through two types of endpoints: the Single Credential Endpoint and the Batch Credential Endpoint.

> 1. Single Credential Endpoint: This endpoint is used when a single Verifiable Credential is to be issued. The request to this endpoint includes the necessary parameters for the issuance of one credential. The response from this endpoint will contain the issued Verifiable Credential.
> 
> 2. Batch Credential Endpoint: This endpoint is used when multiple Verifiable Credentials need to be issued at once. The request to this endpoint includes the necessary parameters for the issuance of multiple credentials. The response from this endpoint will contain all the issued Verifiable Credentials.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
1. Single Credential Endpoint: This endpoint is used when a single Verifiable Credential is to be issued. The request to this endpoint includes the necessary parameters for the issuance of one credential. The response from this endpoint will contain the issued Verifiable Credential.

2. Batch Credential Endpoint: This endpoint is used when multiple Verifiable Credentials need to be issued at once. The request to this endpoint includes the necessary parameters for the issuance of multiple Credentials. The response from this endpoint will contain all the issued Verifiable Credentials.
```

When dealing with multiple Credentials, the following combinations are possible:

> 1. Multiple Credentials with different Credential Format bound to the same Cryptographic Holder Binding.

Reviewer: this does not accommodate for issuing multiple credentials with different Datasets

Author: I rewrote this section, removing this enumeration.

2. Multiple Credentials with the same Credential Format bound to different Cryptographic Holder Binding.
3. Multiple Credentials with different Credential Format bound to different Cryptographic Holder Binding.

> These combinations allow for flexibility in how Verifiable Credentials are issued, accommodating a variety of use cases and requirements. The choice between using the Single Credential Endpoint or the Batch Credential Endpoint depends on the specific use case. If only one Verifiable Credential needs to be issued, the Single Credential Endpoint would be used. If multiple Verifiable Credentials need to be issued at once, the Batch Credential Endpoint would be more efficient.

Author: The open question is: Will this PR be merged before or after the single credential endpoint is removed? 
https://github.com/openid/OpenID4VCI/issues/18

In the course of the authorization process, the Credential Issuer MAY also request Credential presentation as a means to authenticate or identify the End-User during the issuance flow, as illustrated in (#use-case-5).

> ### Credential Formats and Credential Format Profiles

Reviewer: I would like to see this section merged with the early parts of the previous one and move the section on multi-credential issuance behind this one

Author: Please re-read. I restructured and rewrote some parts of this section.

The Credential Format defines how the data (or Dataset) within final Verifiable Credential is organized and secured.
This can include the specific parameters needed to describe the Credential, which are established in the Credential Format Profile.
While in principle independent from each other, the Credential Dataset and the Credential Format can have a relationship in the sense that an Issuer may only offer certain Credential Formats for certain Credential Datasets.

An End-User typically authorizes the issuance of Credentials with a specific Credential Dataset, but do not usually care about the Credential Format. The same Credential Dataset may even be issued in different Credential Formats.

### Credential Formats and Credential Format Profiles

This specification is Credential Format agnostic and allows implementers to leverage specific capabilities of Credential Formats of their choice.
To this end, extension points to add Credential Format specific parameters in the Credential Issuer metadata, Credential Offer, Authorization Request, Credential Request, and Batch Credential Request are defined.

> Credential Format Profiles for W3C Verifiable Credentials ([@VC_DATA]) and ISO/IEC 18013-5 mDL ([@ISO.18013-5]) are specified in (#format_profiles).

Reviewer 9: and SD-JWT VC after main in merged in

Existing OAuth 2.0 mechanisms are extended as following:

* A new Grant Type "Pre-Authorized Code" is defined to facilitate flows where the preparation of the Credential issuance is conducted before the actual OAuth flow starts (see (#pre-authz-code-flow)).

> * A new authorization details [@!RFC9396] type `openid_credential` is defined to convey the details about the Credentials (including Credential Dataset, formats, and types) the Wallet wants to obtain (see (#authorization-details)).
> * New token response error codes `authorization_pending` and `slow_down` are added to allow for deferred authorization of Credential issuance. These error codes are supported for the Pre-Authorized Code grant type.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* A new authorization details [@!RFC9396] type `openid_credential` is defined to convey the details about the Credentials (including Credential Dataset, Credential Formats, and Credential types) the Wallet wants to obtain (see (#authorization-details)).
* New Token Response error codes `authorization_pending` and `slow_down` are added to allow for deferred authorization of Credential issuance. These error codes are supported for the Pre-Authorized Code grant type.
```

* Token Endpoint: Optional response parameters `c_nonce` and `c_nonce_expires_in` are added to the Token Endpoint, Credential Endpoint, and Batch Credential Endpoint to provide the Client with a nonce to be used for proof of possession of key material in a subsequent request to the Credential Endpoint (see (#token-response)).

## Core Concepts

In the context of this specification, Credential Datasets define the data (claims) about a subject that is to be included in a Credential.
The Credential Format defines how the data (or Dataset) within final Verifiable Credential is organized and secured.
This can include the specific parameters needed to describe the Credential, which are established in the Credential Format Profile.
While in principle independent of each other, the Credential Dataset and the Credential Format can have a relationship in the sense that an Issuer may only offer certain Credential Formats for certain Credential Datasets.

> An End-User typically authorizes the issuance of Credentials with a specific Credential Dataset, but do not usually care about the Credential Format. The same Credential Dataset may even be issued in different Credential Formats.

Reviewer: The spec until now doesn't really make statements about how/where user consent takes place. In the most prominent setup today, Wallets ask for consent after the Credential Offer and there is only information about Credential Configuration but not the Dataset

> An End-User typically authorizes the issuance of Credentials with a specific Credential Dataset, but do not usually care about the Credential Format. The same Credential Dataset may even be issued in different Credential Formats.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An End-User typically authorizes the issuance of Credentials with a specific Credential Dataset, but do not usually care about the Credential Format. The same Credential Dataset may even be issued in different Credential Formats or with multiple Credential instances.
```

> An End-User typically authorizes the issuance of Credentials with a specific Credential Dataset, but do not usually care about the Credential Format. The same Credential Dataset may even be issued in different Credential Formats or with multiple Credential instances.

Author: ```suggestion
An End-User typically authorizes the issuance of Credentials with a specific Credential Dataset, but does not usually care about the Credential Format. The same Credential Dataset may even be issued in different Credential Formats or with multiple Credential instances.
```

### Credential Formats and Credential Format Profiles

This specification is Credential Format agnostic and allows implementers to leverage specific capabilities of Credential Formats of their choice.
To this end, extension points to add Credential Format specific parameters in the Credential Issuer metadata, Credential Offer, Authorization Request, Credential Request, and Batch Credential Request are defined.

> Credential Format Profiles for W3C Verifiable Credentials ([@VC_DATA]) and ISO/IEC 18013-5 mDL ([@ISO.18013-5]) are specified in (#format-profiles).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Credential Format Profiles for SD-JWT VC [@I-D.ietf-oauth-sd-jwt-vc], mDL [@ISO.18013-5], and VCDM [@VC_DATA] are specified in (#format-profiles).
```

Author: as above, don't drop the "W3C" part

> Credential Format Profiles for SD-JWT VC [@I-D.ietf-oauth-sd-jwt-vc], mDL [@ISO.18013-5], and W3C VCDM [@VC_DATA] are specified in (#format-profiles).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Credential Format Profiles for IETF SD-JWT VC [@I-D.ietf-oauth-sd-jwt-vc], ISO mDL [@ISO.18013-5], and W3C VCDM [@VC_DATA] are specified in (#format-profiles).
```

> Credential Format Profiles for SD-JWT VC [@I-D.ietf-oauth-sd-jwt-vc], mDL [@ISO.18013-5], and W3C VCDM [@VC_DATA] are specified in (#format-profiles).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Credential Format Profiles for IETF SD-JWT VC [@I-D.ietf-oauth-sd-jwt-vc], ISO mDL [@ISO.18013-5], and W3C VCDM [@VC_DATA] are specified in (#format-profiles).
```

Other specifications or deployments can define their own Credential Format Profiles using the above-mentioned extension points.

### Multiple Credential Issuance

This specification allows for the issuance of Verifiable Credentials through two types of endpoints: the Single Credential Endpoint and the Batch Credential Endpoint.

> 1. Single Credential Endpoint: This endpoint is used when a single Verifiable Credential is to be issued. The request to this endpoint includes the necessary parameters for the issuance of one Credential. The response from this endpoint will contain the issued Verifiable Credential.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Single Credential Endpoint: This endpoint is used when a single Verifiable Credential is to be issued. The request to this endpoint includes the necessary parameters for the issuance of one Credential. The response from this endpoint will contain one issued Verifiable Credential.
```
assuming this "one" will be changed in PR #293.

> 2. Batch Credential Endpoint: This endpoint is used when multiple Verifiable Credentials need to be issued at once. The request to this endpoint includes the necessary parameters for the issuance of multiple Credentials. The response from this endpoint will contain all the issued Verifiable Credentials.

Reviewer 2: curious why keep using `Verifiable Credential" if `Credential` is now a term?

> 2. Batch Credential Endpoint: This endpoint is used when multiple Verifiable Credentials need to be issued at once. The request to this endpoint includes the necessary parameters for the issuance of multiple Credentials. The response from this endpoint will contain all the issued Verifiable Credentials.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Batch Credential Endpoint: This endpoint is used when multiple Verifiable Credentials need to be issued at once. The request to this endpoint includes the necessary parameters for the issuance of multiple Credentials. The response from this endpoint will contain all the issued Credentials.
```

Credentials can vary in their format (Credential Format including Credential Format Profile specific parameters), in their contents (the Credential Dataset), as well as in the cryptographic data, e.g. Issuer signatures, hashes and keys used for Cryptographic Holder Binding.
Multiple Credentials, either issued in multiple Credential Requests or all at once at the Batch Credential Endpoint, can therefore vary in the following dimensions:

- Credential Dataset
- Credential Format

> - Cryptographic Data

Reviewer 2: Is `Cryptographic Data` the best way to express "signature"..?

Reviewer: See comment above, not only about signatures

- Credential Dataset
- Credential Format
- Cryptographic Holder Binding Key

For example, a batch of Credentials may be issued where all Credentials have the same Credential Dataset and Format, but all are bound to different cryptographic keys (e.g., for unlinkability between the credentials).
As another example, an Issuer may offer two Credentials that differ in their contents and format, but are bound to the same key.
These combinations allow for flexibility in how Verifiable Credentials are issued, accommodating a variety of use cases and requirements.

The choice between using the Single Credential Endpoint or the Batch Credential Endpoint depends on the specific use case.
If only one Verifiable Credential needs to be issued, the Single Credential Endpoint would be used.
If multiple Verifiable Credentials need to be issued at once, the Batch Credential Endpoint would be more efficient.

In the course of the authorization process, the Credential Issuer MAY also request Credential presentation as a means to authenticate or identify the End-User during the issuance flow, as illustrated in (#use-case-5).

### Issuance Flow Variations

> The issuance can have multiple characteristics, which can be combined depending on the use cases:

Author: ```suggestion
The issuance can have multiple characteristics which can be combined depending on the use cases:
```

* New token response error codes `authorization_pending` and `slow_down` are added to allow for deferred authorization of Credential issuance. These error codes are supported for the Pre-Authorized Code grant type.
* Client metadata is used to convey Wallet's metadata. A new metadata parameter `credential_offer_endpoint` is added to allow a Wallet (acting as OAuth 2.0 client) to publish its Credential Offer Endpoint (see (#client-metadata)).
* Authorization Endpoint: An additional parameter `issuer_state` is added to convey state in the context of processing an issuer-initiated Credential Offer (see (#credential-authz-request)). Additional parameters `wallet_issuer` and `user_hint` are added to enable the Credential Issuer to request Verifiable Presentations from the calling Wallet during Authorization Request processing.
* Token Endpoint: optional response parameters `c_nonce` and `c_nonce_expires_in` are added to the Token Endpoint, Credential Endpoint and Batch Credential Endpoint to provide the Client with a nonce to be used for proof of possession of key material in a subsequent request to the Credential Endpoint (see (#token-response)).

> ## Core Concepts

Author: Authorization happens on the level of the credential dataset — should be mentioned here.

* `c_nonce`: OPTIONAL. String containing a nonce to be used when creating a proof of possession of the key proof (see (#credential_request)). When received, the Wallet MUST use this nonce value for its subsequent requests until the Credential Issuer provides a fresh nonce.
* `c_nonce_expires_in`: OPTIONAL. Number denoting the lifetime in seconds of the `c_nonce`.
* `authorization_details`: REQUIRED when `authorization_details` parameter is used to request issuance of a certain Credential type as defined in (#authorization-details). MUST NOT be used otherwise. An array of objects as defined in Section 7 of [@!RFC9396]. This specification defines the following parameter to be used with authorization details type `openid_credential` in the Token Response:

>   * `credential_identifiers`: OPTIONAL. Array of strings that each uniquely identify a Credential that can be issued using Access Token returned in this response. Each Credential is a unique Credential described using the same entry in the `credentials_supported` Credential Issuer metadata, but can contain different claim values or different subset of claims within the claimset identified by the Credential type. This parameter can also be used to simplify the Credential Request, since as defined in (#credential_request) `credential_identifier` parameter replaces `format` and any other Credential Format specific parameters in the Credential Request. When received, the Wallet MUST use these values together with an Access Token in the subsequent Credential Request(s).

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
  * `credential_identifiers`: OPTIONAL. Array of strings that each uniquely identify a Credential that can be issued using the Access Token returned in this response. Each Credential is a unique Credential described using the same entry in the `credentials_supported` Credential Issuer metadata, but can contain different claim values or different subset of claims within the claimset identified by the Credential type. This parameter can also be used to simplify the Credential Request, since as defined in (#credential_request) `credential_identifier` parameter replaces `format` and any other Credential Format specific parameters in the Credential Request. When received, the Wallet MUST use these values together with an Access Token in the subsequent Credential Request(s).
```

> Note: Credential Instance identifier(s) cannot be used when `scope` parameter is used in the Authorization Request to request issuance of a Credential.

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
Note: Credential identifier(s) cannot be used when `scope` parameter is used in the Authorization Request to request issuance of a Credential.
```

## Relationship between the Credential Issuer Identifier in the Metadata and the Issuer Identifier in the Issued Credential

> The Credential Issuer Identifier is always a URL using the `https` scheme, as defined in (#credential-issuer-identifier). Depending on the Credential Format, the issuer identifier in the issued Credential may not be a URL using the `https` scheme. Some other forms that it can take are a DID included in the `issuer` property in a [@VC_DATA] format, or the `Subject` value of the document signer certificate included in the `x5chain` element in an [@ISO.18013-5] format.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The Credential Issuer Identifier is always a URL using the `https` scheme, as defined in (#credential-issuer-identifier). Depending on the Credential Format, the Issuer identifier in the issued Credential may not be a URL using the `https` scheme. Some other forms that it can take are a DID included in the `issuer` property in a [@VC_DATA] format, or the `Subject` value of the document signer certificate included in the `x5chain` element in an [@ISO.18013-5] format.
```

The End-User installs a new Wallet and opens it. The Wallet offers the End-User a selection of Credentials that the End-User may obtain from a Credential Issuer, e.g. a national identity Credential, a mobile driving license, or a public transport ticket. The corresponding Credential Issuers (and their URLs) are pre-configured by the Wallet or follow some discovery processes that are out of scope for this specification. By clicking on one of these options corresponding to the Credentials available for issuance, the issuance process starts using a flow supported by the Credential Issuer (Pre-Authorized Code flow or Authorization Code flow).

Wallet Providers may also provide a market place where Issuers can register to be found for Wallet-initiated flows.

# Document History

   [[ To be removed from the final specification ]]

   -14

   * Define Credential Format as a term

>    * Define Credential Dataset as a term

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
   * Define Credential Dataset as a term
   * Define Credential Configuration as a term
```
